# Week 3 meeting notes
2022 February 22 - 13:45 - on campus

## Code of Conduct feedback
* Description not clear enough
    - Describe the end product specifically - what the application is going to do
* Target ambition
    - Describe the grade, but the end goal as well
* Product - describe specifically what the product **quality** is (give a real measure)
    - The code must follow the check-style, pass tests etc.
    - The merge request can be submitted only if there are X reviews
* Planning
    - Rotate document upload role
    - Task splitting is not clear (correct e.g: we have a meeting every week during which we split the tasks)
        This is more general, not what task specifically we are going to do, but rather we need to describe the process and structure of task splitting
    - Deadlines are not mentioned (when and how do we set it, how do we agree on it)
* Work ethic
    - Everyone should contribute equally
* Commitment
    - How do we measure the quality (e.g passes pipeline, check style, tests, good commit messages)
        - Every merge should have some comments, X approvals
* Meetings
    - When are the meetings, specify the second one is flexible
    - How we decide when to schedule other meetings (how do we plan it e.g through discord)
        - How many days before it is planned
    - What are the preparations for the meetings?
    - Are the meetings flexible - reschedule / cancel
* Decision making
    - State no one can go against the team decision (every member should comply)
* Dealing with conflicts
    - What happens if we don't reach consensus (e.g. even split in case of voting)
* Upload by Friday 6 PM

## Backlog feedback
* Weights - explain what value means what (upload a document to GitLab)
* Good use of milestones - divide at least 2 weeks worth of issues to milestones (deadline this Friday 6 PM)
* Not all issues follow the template
* Short description is bad for some issues not descriptive enough
* Have a TODO list for the description (e.g. implement button, make it work, make the server handle it)

## API endpoints
* One endpoint of each type (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE)
    - The final deadline is next week for all four methods, however preferably all of them are done by Friday 6 PM
    - UI not required to be implemented for

## Good GitLab practices

### Issues
* One issue per feature
* Max 2 days of work => break up large user stories
* Max 2 people assigned to work on a single issue
* Make a task list for issues (e.g. create class, have an endpoint, implement the UI design)
* (Optional) Have a solution in the issue description
* Put a weight for each issue
* Have due date or milestone
* Label for every issue
* Have issue board (todo; doing; testing; review; done)

### Merge Requests
* Approval and comment required (good comment) - two people enough for approval (but try to rotate the people who review)
* Comments - be specific and helpful (e.g. about code style, tests)
* Check code thoroughly - pull the branch and test on local machine
* Merge Request author can disagree with comment
* Reviews should always be documented on GitLab (don't discuss only on Discord)
* Don't approve too quickly
* Pipeline should be green always (if it is red then fix it)
* Everyone should run check-style locally and then push

### Branches
* New branch per issue
* Should not exist for more than 3 days (development and main branches are exceptions)
* Every week merge all the changes into main (every week Sunday is final deadline)

## Information literacy deadline
* Friday 6 PM - team notified

## Teamwork assignment 3A & 3B
* Upload agenda and notes - 3A
* Come up with a question for the teamwork Q&A next week - 3B
    - going to decide this on the second weekly meeting

## HCI assignment
* By the end of the day do and submit the evaluation of the other group
* Waiting for results from Group 52
* Deadline is Friday 6PM for our draft HCI report

## Set milestones for week 3
* Set up all the milestones
* Discussed on the Wednesday meeting
* For now everyone studies the frameworks

## Upload questions to the Activity-bank
* Upload our questions
* We need 20 questions
* Activities are ready, pictures and sources are missing

## Summary action points
* Second meeting is on 2022 February 23 12:00 on Discord
* Everyone is going to get more acquainted with Spring and OpenJFX (until Wednesday)
* Yongcheng needs to update his issues to use the template (until Friday 6 PM)
* Everyone needs to add task lists to their issues where possible
* We need to group **all** issues into milestones (done on Wednesday)
* The Code of Conduct needs to be updated and uploaded by Beni (Friday 6 PM)
* We need to upload an explanation for issue weights (to be discussed at next meeting)
* API endpoints need to be added (until Friday 6 PM, more discussion about this on Wednesday)
* Everyone must complete the information literacy assignment by Friday 6 PM
* Teamwork assignment 3B to be discussed at next meeting
* Everyone needs to submit their review of Group 52's design on Tuesday (today)
* We need to transfer our questions into the JSON format (for now everyone looks for source URLs and images)
